LEARN MORE ABOUT THESE POPULAR SOCIAL MEDIA SITES

1 – Facebook
fb

This is easily the largest social networking site in the world and one of the most widely used. And, Facebook was perhaps the first that surpassed the landmark of 1 billion user accounts.

Apart from the ability to network with friends and relatives, you can also access different Facebook apps to sell online and you can even market or promote your business, brand and products by using paid Facebook ads.

Recently Facebook has lost the trust of millions of its users by allowing 3rd parties to access over 87 million users’ personal data. This is a massive breech of trust and has created a feeling of unrest amongst the social media platform’s audience. So much so that there is now a #deletefacebook campaign where people are completely removing themselves from Facebook and using other networks instead. If you’re concerned about what Facebook is doing with your data, then why not check out my guide on alternatives to Facebook, and see if there’s a better place for you to interact with family and friends.
Number of active users per month: 1.59 billion approximately


2 – WhatsApp
WhatsApp

Despite having been acquired by Facebook in 2014, this instant messaging platform exists as an independent entity.

It arrived on the scene much later than Facebook, but has been able to capture the imagination of millions of people across the world by giving them the ability to communicate and share instantly with individuals and groups. The WhatsApp call feature is just the icing on the cake!

Number of active users per month: 1 billion approximately

 

 

 

3- QQ
qq

Tencent QQ (more popularly known as QQ) is an instant messaging (chat-based) social media platform. It became international (with more than 80 countries using it), after it was launched in China.

It can be used to stay in touch with friends through texts, video calls and voice chats. It even has a built-in translator to translate your chats. To find out more, head over to our Chinese Social Media stats page.

Number of active users per month: 853 million approximately

 

 

4 – WeChat
wechat

This is an all-in-one communications app for messaging and calling (similar to WhatsApp) that enables you to connect with the people of your choice. It was also developed by Tencent in China and can easily work alongside QQ. As per the BI intelligence report, the number of WeChat users are fast catching up with the number of WhatsApp users.

Related article: WeChat keyboard shortcuts

Number of active users per month: 697 million approximately

 

 

 

5 – QZone
Qzone

Like QQ and WeChat, QZone is yet another social networking service developed by Tencent. It enables you to share photos, watch videos, listen to songs, write blogs, maintain diaries and so on. It also empowers you to choose the accessories and customize the look and feel of your QZone webpages.

Number of active users per month: 640 million approximately

 

 

 

6 – Tumblr
tumblr

Having been owned by Yahoo since 2013, Tumblr serves as a social media cum micro blogging platform that can be used to find and follow things that you like. You can also use it to post anything, including multimedia, to a short-form blog. Moreover, it gives you the flexibility to customize almost everything.

Number of active users per month: 555 million approximately

 

 

 

7 – Instagram
instagram

Instagram was launched as a unique social networking platform that was completely based on sharing photos and videos. This photo sharing social networking app thus enables you to capture the best moments of your life, with your phone’s camera or any other camera, and convert them into works of art.

This is possible because Instagram allows you to apply multiple filters to your photos and you can easily post them to other popular social networking sites, such as Facebook and Twitter. It is now part of the Facebook empire. Learn how to grow your Instagram audience.

Read more on Instagram Tools to help you increase social engagement and audience numbers.

 

Number of active users per month: 400 million approximately

 

 

 

8 – Twitter
twitter

This social networking site enables you to post short text messages (called tweets), containing a limited number of characters (up to 140), to convey your message to the world. With the growing craze for online shopping, Twitter also makes it possible to promote your businesses and even shop directly through tweets. Learn how to create the perfect Twitter profile.

Number of active users per month: 320 million approximately

 

 

 

9 – Google+
g+

Owned by the tech giant Alphabet (Google), this interest-based social networking platform enables you to stay in touch with people by sharing messages, photos, videos, useful links to sites and so on. It also extends support for video conferencing through Hangouts and allows businesses to promote their brands and products through Google+ business pages.

Number of active users: 300 million approximately

 

 

 

10 – Baidu Tieba
Baidu-Logo

Offered by Baidu of China, a search engine company, Baidu Tieba (known as Postbar internationally) is a social forum network based on the keyword searches in the Baidu search engine. This discussion forum works on the unique concept of allowing you to create a social network group for a specific topic, using the search, or even to join an existing online social group.

Number of active users per month: 300 million approximately

 

 

 

11 – Skype
skype

Skype, owned by Microsoft, is one of the most popular communication-based social networking platforms. It allows you to connect with people through voice calls, video calls (using a webcam) and text messaging. You can even conduct group conference calls. And, the best part is that Skype-to-Skype calls are free and can be used to communicate with anyone, located in any part of the world, over the internet.

Number of active users per month: 300 million approximately

 

 

 

12 – Viber
viber

This multi-lingual social platform, which is available in more than 30 languages, is known for its instant text messaging and voice messaging capabilities. You can also share photos and videos and audio messages, using Viber. It offers you the ability to call non-Viber users through a feature named Viber Out.

Number of active users per month: 249 million approximately

 

 

 

13 – Sina Weibo
Sina_Weibo.svg

This is a highly popular microblogging social platform in China that is known for its hybrid mix of Twitter’s and Facebook’s features.

Number of active users per month: 222 million approximately

 

 

 

14 – LINE
line

LINE is a globally available messaging social network that enables you to share photos, videos, text messages and even audio messages or files. In addition, it allows you to make voice and video calls at any time of the day.

Number of active users per month: 215 million approximately

 

 

 

15 – Snapchat
Snapchat

This is an image messaging social platform that enables you to chat with friends by using pictures. It allows you to explore news and even check out live stories that are happening around the world.

Number of active users per month: 200 million approximately

 

 

 

16 – YY
logo_yy

YY is a major video-based social networking platform in China that enables group video chats. In such chats, more than 100,000 members can watch a single person doing an activity. Such an activity can be anything from giving a tutorial video to singing karaoke, which helps the users earn virtual currency that they can later convert into cash.

Number of active users per month: 122 million approximately

 

 

17 – VKontakte (VK)
VK.com logo

VK is one of the largest social networking platforms in Russia and has quite similar features to Facebook.

Number of active users per month: 100 million approximately

 

 

18 – Pinterest
Pinterest_logo

This is a photo sharing and visual bookmarking social media site or app that enables you to find new ideas for your projects and save them. So, you can do DIY tasks or home improvement projects, plan your travel agenda and so on by using Pinterest.

Number of active users per month: 100 million approximately

 

 

 

19- LinkedIn
linkedin

LinkedIn is easily one of the most popular professional social networking sites or apps and is available in over 20 languages. It is used across the globe by all types of professionals and serves as an ideal platform to connect with different businesses, locate and hire ideal candidates, and more. It boasts over 400 million members.

Number of active users per month: 100 million approximately

 

 

 

20 – Telegram
telegram

This instant messaging network is similar to WhatsApp and is available across platforms in more than eight languages. However, Telegram has always focused more on the privacy and security of the messages you send over the internet by using its platform. So, it empowers you to send messages that are encrypted and self-destructive. This encryption feature has only just been made available for WhatsApp, whereas Telegram has always provided it.

Number of active users per month: 100 million approximately

 

 

21 – Reddit
reddit logo

This social media platform enables you to submit content and later vote for the content. The voting determines whether the content moves up or down, which is ultimately organized based on the areas of interest (known as subreddits).

Number of active users per month: 100 million approximately

 

 

 

22 – Taringa
taringa

Taringa is one of the largest social networking platform in Latin America and allows users to share their experiences, content and more.

Number of active users: 75 million approximately

 

 

23 – Foursquare
new foursquare logo

This is a local search- and discovery-based social media platform that enables you to find the ideal places (based on your location) to go to with friends and loved ones. It also gives appropriate search results for the best food outlets, night entertainment places and more in your area. The social networking feature is now available in a separate app named Swarm.

Number of active users: 40 million approximately

 

 

24 – Renren
RenRen

This is the largest social networking site in China and is literally a platform for everyone. It has been highly popular with the youth due to its similarity to Facebook, as it allows users to easily connect with others, quickly share thoughts and posts, and even update their moods.

Number of active users per month: More than 30 million approximately

 

 

 

25 – Tagged
Tagged.com

This is a great social media site based on friendship and dating and, in 2011, it acquired another social networking platform called hi5. It enables you to socialise with others through games, browsing profiles, common interests and so on.

Number of active users: 25 million approximately

 

 

26 – Badoo 
Badoo

This dating-based social networking site operates in more than 200 countries. It shares details about people nearby in your area and even about people whom you may have bumped into in real life.

Number of active users per month: 20 million approximately

 

 

 

27 – Myspace
myspace logo

This is a music-focused social networking site and provides an interactive and user-submitted network of friends. It also provides blogs, groups, personal profiles, pictures, videos and so on.

Number of active users: 20 million approximately

 

 

 

28 – StumbleUpon
StumbleUpon Logo

StumbleUpon is an intelligent social networking platform that finds or discovers content and recommends the same to its users. You are thus empowered to discover webpages, images, videos and so on and then rate them as per your interest and taste.

Number of active users: 25 million approximately

 

 

 

29 – The Dots
the_dots_header_logo

the-dots.com is a networking platform that helps everyone involved in the creative process connect, collaborate and commercialise helping build a stronger, more profitable and diverse creative sector. Born out of a genuine passion to make the creative industries more open and meritocratic, founder Pip Jamieson launched the platform in the UK in 2014.

 

 

 

30 – Kiwibox
kiwibox

This is a community-based social networking site, especially for those who live in New York. It offers an online magazine to target teens through fashion tips, advice and chat. It also allows young adults to let everyone know about their skills and interests.

 

 

 

31 – Skyrock
Skyrock

Skyrock is a French social networking site that offers its users a free and personal web space to create and post blogs, add profiles and exchange messages. Apart from French and English, it is also available in five other languages.

 

32 – Delicious
It is known for being the leading social bookmarking service. Having been launched in 2003, Delicious is ideal for storing, sharing and discovering web bookmarks. It also allows its users to tag them with any keywords.

 

 

 

33 – Snapfish
snapfish

Snapfish is a web-based photo sharing social networking site that offers unlimited storage to its members for uploading photos. You can thus put away your storage space concerns for your vast collection of images.

 

 

 

34 – ReverbNation
reverbnation

This is the ideal social networking platform for musicians and professionals to connect with others in the music industry. It offers different tools to musicians to manage their careers and offers them the right access to their music industry partners and fans.

 

 

 

35 – Flixster
Flixster logo

This is an American social networking site for people who love movies and want to connect with like-minded people by sharing their movie reviews and ratings. Its users are likely to learn about movies and get information about new movies.

 

 

 

36 – Care2
care2

This social media site helps activists connect around the globe with similar individuals, businesses and organisations that are making an impact on society. It also encourages people to lead a healthy and green lifestyle.

 

 

37 – CafeMom
Cafemom Logo

This ad-supported social networking website is a community for mothers and mothers-to-be that enables them to get support and advice on various topics, such as pregnancy, fashion, health and food. It also helps them learn from the experiences of other mothers.

 

 

 

38 – Ravelry
ravelry-logo-81r-300x

Ravelry is a community-based social network that is targeted at people who are interested in fibre arts, such as spinning, knitting, weaving and crocheting. Such people can share their own collections, different ideas and learn from the experiences of other members for better collaboration possibilities.

 

 

 

39 – Nextdoor
nextdoor

This is a private social networking platform for neighbourhoods in the US. The objective is pretty simple: allowing users to get connected with the people in their area.

 

 

 

40 – Wayn
wayn

Wayn is a travel- and lifestyle-based social networking platform and offers its users the ability to discover where to go, what to do and how to meet like-minded people to share their experiences.

 

 

 

41 – Cellufun
Cellufun

This social gaming community can easily be accessed on the move from any mobile device. With this mobile gaming-based social network, users can socialise, create avatars, play games and purchase virtual goods.

 

 

 

42 – YouTube
youtube

YouTube is the world’s largest video-sharing social networking site that enables users to upload and share videos, view them, comment on them and like them. This social network is accessible across the globe and even enables users to create a YouTube channel where they can upload all their personally recorded videos to showcase to their friends and followers.

 

 

43 – Vine
Vine

This is an entertainment-based, short-form video sharing social media site where members can easily share videos that are six seconds long. It belongs to the Twitter family and allows easy integration with other social networking platforms to share and watch videos.

 

 

44 – Classmates
classmates-logo

Classmates allows users to find, connect and keep in touch with friends and acquaintances from school and college. It is also possible for users to upload their yearbook from their school years.

 

 

45 – MyHeritage
MH_logo_Horizontal_RGB

This is an online genealogy social platform which supports more than 42 languages and empowers its users to create family trees, upload and browse through family photos and manage their own family history. It could also be used by people to find their ancestors and get more information about them.

 

 

46 – Viadeo
Viadeo_NewLogo

Viadeo is an online business-based social networking site that helps business people, mostly those in Europe, connect with one another. It is available in about different languages.

 

 

47 – Xing
XING

This professional social networking site offers features that are similar to LinkedIn’s features, with its main users based in Switzerland, Austria and Germany. However, it is unique in the sense that it enables closed group discussions between the members of a certain company or business.

 

 

 

 

48 – Xanga
xanga

This blogging-based social networking platform hosts weblogs, photo blogs and social networking profiles for its users.

 

 

49 – LiveJournal
livejournal

This San Francisco-based social networking site is available in Russia, as Zhivoy Zhurnal or Zhe Zhe. It enables users to maintain a diary, blog or journal, along with privacy controls.

 

 

50 – Friendster
 

Friendster was previously a social networking site to find friends and stay in touch, but is now a social gaming network for game lovers in Asia.

 

 

 

51 – Funny or Die
funny-or-die

This comedy video social website is aimed at bringing together the funniest videos from the web. Celebrities follow this social platform a lot and it enables users to share, upload and rate videos.

 

 

 

52 – Gaia Online
Gaia-Online

Gaia Online is an anime-themed social networking and forums-based website. It gives users access to avatars, virtual world, games and so on.

 

 

 

53 – We Heart It
weheartit

This photo-sharing social media site, which is available in more than 20 languages, is ideal for users’ daily dose of inspiration or motivation. It enables users to view and share highly inspirational images with their friends.

 

 

 

54 – Buzznet
buzznet

This social media site allows users to share content on the basis of their personal interests in the form of videos, photos and journals. It also seamlessly integrates with Facebook.

 

 

55 – DeviantArt
deviantart_logo

DeviantArt is regarded as the largest online social networking community for art lovers and artists. It enables users to take photos of their artwork and share them with others.

 

 

56 – Flickr
flickr

This is another highly popular photo-sharing website. It serves as a platform to upload numerous high quality images, especially by photographers or people who love photography. It is also an efficient online photo management and sharing service.

 

 

57 – MeetMe
mm

Formerly known as myYearbook, MeetMe is aimed at users who want to find new friends and chat with them. This makes it highly popular among teens and young students.

 

 

58 – Meetup
images (1)

This social networking portal enables you to find groups of like-minded people, who have similar interest to you, near your locality (anywhere in the world). It also facilitates offline group meetings and you can become a part of such groups and their discussions.

 

 

 

59 – Tout
tout

Tout is a social networking cum micro-blogging platform that allows you to view and share videos that are 15 seconds long. The videos that are shared on this platform are known as touts.

 

 

 

60 – Mixi
mixi-logo

This is a popular Japanese social networking service that has around 20 million active users. It enables you to connect with your friends and loved ones in a convenient way and even based on your areas of interest.

 